I want to create a number of web apps to
help facilitate an exhibition in an art
gallery.
The first is some kind of system where
the audience can scan AQR code and then
send a message to the system.
Incidentally,
the message will be one of a number of
prompts.
Things like,
can you send a dream and you'd expect to
receive it is some kind of description of
a dream that could be a future with
infinite energy or something like that.
Then that message is to be displayed on
the central projection screen.
There will be a number of things
displayed on the screen,
so there will need to be some vision
mixing.
The message from the audience or the
messages from the audience members will
then go into various artistic processes
which are partly human and partly
computerised.
For example,
one of the artistic modules will use
stream diffusion to take the text of the
dream and make images at a rate that is a
bit like an animation.
And there will be somebody who is
operating that using some form of VJ
software Touchdesigner.
The output from that will need to go onto
the projection display as well.
So it might be that the projection
display is split into nine and one idea
is that as each message comes in,
it goes into a queue and is then
delivered to 1 of the 8 possible artistic
modules.
And it might be quite nice if there was
an sort of animation,
so the message popped up in the centre of
the screen and then maybe moved over to
the one of the 8 adjacent sort of cells
of the display in order to get, you know,
made part of it.
One of the other artistic modules would
be a a text based LLM response that was
skinned with an old sort of 70s terminal
display using green terminal colours or
you know,
black and green or whatever is an
authentic sort of 70s display with
perhaps a a mono monotype character or
something like that,
some kind of font from the era.
And it will give a response to the dream
a kind of AI suppose like a critique.
So that that might be like a some form of
of model and perhaps one that can run
locally or it could potentially leverage
ChatGPT account, maybe a custom GPT,
but I don't know how it would send that
message in and then send it back and then
format it for the display.
It might be possible and easier to do it
internally, I don't know.
Anyways, fine.
But the quality of the response does
matter.
And probably it would be good for the to
be a kind of framing, you know,
sort of defined personality for that GPT.
Yeah,
it would offer quite a short response to
the dream, but it would,
the fundamental thing is it would give
some kind of critique or response to the
dream.
Not necessarily a full critique,
but some kind of response that that
implies some kind of opinion or judgement
on behalf of the AI.
And there'd be that underlying
personality and then say out of 10
responses,
5 would be just neutral within that
personality.
And then there would be sort of five
extra flavours.
One would be a doom monger personality.
One would be a psychoanalyst personality.
One would be a sycophantic personality.
It's very easily done when selected
licencing first came in.
1 is humorous,
but in a very dry and deadpan way,
and sort of takes the, uh,
the Mickey a little bit.
Makes fun a little bit,
and one is hypercritical.
Another artistic module would be an image
generating LLM that made an image of the
dream but always framed it within a
really boring office like stock image.
And the idea for that is that it just
shows the potential for really boring
results if people use AI in a very boring
and surface level way.
And it also kind of says how how
expression and meaning can kind of
converge on what is a really boring and
useless average.
This will be in contrast to some of the
other artistic modules that will be much
more interesting.
Another artistic module is that there
will be a human performer doing movements.
So kind of like a, you know,
not a dancer exactly,
but like a physical performer, I suppose,
dance, but you know, abstract.
And they would be reacting to what was on
the display,
but then there would be a camera on them.
And there should be some kind of
processing that tries to identify her
elbows and wrists and approximate their
position and directionality in 3D space.
And that would be used to construct a
line in 3D space that had a direction and
that would be used later.
The thing that it would be used later on
relates to a separate artistic module
that creates a 3D object related to the
prompt that people have put in.
And it could do this in any way,
but perhaps one way is to use the module
context protocol and Blender.
So perhaps an LLM could interpret the
dream,
you know that the the input from the
person,
whether it's a dream or whatever their
prompt is,
and turn that into some instructions for
Blender and create a 3D scene.
The difficulty here is it does need to be
relatively simple so that it doesn't take
ages or kind of break.
So we need to figure out what generates
good results here.
That 3D scene that Blender creates should
then be exported and displayed in some
kind of web-based player.
And it would be good if that had a camera
that was kind of on a fixed and looping
maybe orbit or, you know,
not necessarily an even orbit,
but if had some kind of path where it was
rotating around the object and and the
object would always have to be scaled.
So it kind of fit this, this scene.
So perhaps there's a process to identify
the the bounds of the object and scale it
appropriately.
And this is where the the dancers elbow
and wrist positions comes into it.
So I don't know if this can work,
but I have an idea where the 3D
positionality of the dancer's arms and
the resultant line in 3D space is used to
control a beam of lighting in the 3D
player.
And so depending on the artist's movement,
the beams of light kind of move around
and change direction and shine
differently.
The scene on the 3D player would actually
be quite dark,
in part to kind of disguise the
potentially crude and unpredictable 3D AI
generation and also just, you know,
to add some visual interest and to make
it exciting and dynamic and sort of part
of the performance.
So the idea is that the beam of light
would kind of, you know,
light up parts and it would look quite
mysterious and shadowy.
It would also might be quite good if the
intensity of the light could be related
to the intensity of the movements.
So if there is more movement over say a
rolling 32nd time period,
actually no less than that, you know,
let's say, you know, 2 second time period,
then the light would be very bright.
And then when there's much less movement,
the light would be less.
It would never go to 0.
There'll always be some.
But then if the dancer kind of thrashed
around, you know,
the lights would get very bright.
So I don't know how this would be done or
if it's possible, but that would be cool.
We could potentially use web technology.
We can potentially use Max MSP by cycling
74.
There are some other modules.
There is.
There are.
There's a module by a guy called.
Ian and I'm not sure what he's doing,
but he's probably doing something with
generative image AI.
And then there's another module by
another guy and he's doing something with
a gravity sketch.
Again, not exactly sure what this will be.
And there was another module by a guy
who's doing music and you know he will do
some kind of live music.
Now I, I can't remember, I've lost count.
I can't remember if we're on 8 modules
now or if we're on 7 or 6,
but I've got a couple more ideas and I
guess other people will have ideas as
well.
And we probably need to pick 8.
And then one is like the central, yeah,
sort of like thing where the,
where you can see the message from the
audience come in and then it moved to one
of the surrounding, you know, modules or,
you know, areas on the screen.
So a couple of other ideas are that the,
we have another LLM that decides what the
mood of the dream is and gives a key
signature to the musician as a prompt for
him.
That key signature should really vary
quite wildly in terms of, you know,
standard scales or modes.
You know,
we want to make sure there's a lot of
variety there.
And then that module could potentially
link to the lights.
There could be some kind of control of
the and when I say the lights,
I mean the lights in the 3D scene that
the dancer is controlling.
There could be something whereby the keys
of the music or possibly something to do
with the Sonic spectrum of the music will
affect the colour of the light.
I'm not sure what that should be.
It could be that, yeah.
I'm not sure what that should be.
It might be that a single note is white,
or, you know,
harmonic simplicity is white and harmonic
complication is colour and that colour
cycles perhaps so that there's some kind
of underlying cyclic controller that
cycles through colour and increases or
well, modulates the, you know,
deviation from white to colour.
But yeah,
something so that the the music somehow
is expressed through the colour.
So I wonder to what extent all of this is
possible and if it could be broken down
into a a brief and a document.
Of these concepts,
something that's useful for me and the
other artists to look at, pick apart,
interrogate and specify as a system to
build.